Come back in this lesson we're going to do a quick exercise where we're going to build a shopping list
where we can dynamically add to our shopping list using javascript.
So we're going to take some of the code that we had previously and we're going to make some updates
to it so instead of adding a friend.
We're adding an item and instead of this one to list so we can keep that one the same as well.
And instead of having output we're going to have a bunch of listed items so we'll start by doing an
H1
and this will be the shopping list.
And instead of using a table we're going to use an unordered list.
So an unordered list and we're going to give this one an ID of S list.
So this is going to be our shopping list and all of the elements that we're going to creating are going
to be added into the shopping list.
Nascent neatly into a list format.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and take what we learned from the previous lesson and
build out this shopping list.
So there's a number of steps that we need to take.
So the first thing that we need to do is we need to click to add new and then from there we need to
get the value of the new item.
So get the value of the new item and we need to simply we need to create.
So we have to create a new new list item.
So create a brand new list item and within that list item.
So we have to add text to new list item and then we need to append that list item to the ordered list.
So those are the steps that we need to take in order to accomplish this.
So what I want you to do.
Pause the video take what we've learned from the previous lessons and apply it to build out the shopping
list.
And I'm going to show you the solution.
Coming up so hope you had an opportunity to try that.
So now this lesson we want to build out a shopping list.
So let's go ahead and we're going to get element by ID in order to create that element and make it clickable
so documents and get element by id and the ID that we had here is new and new and we'll use the On Click
handler and from here we're going to set up a function.
And then what's going to happen within this function we're going to call to another function.
So this function is going to call out and it's going to call to another function where we're actually
going to add an item to the list.
So we're going to have any information within there because we don't need to handle this or anything
like that.
And if we need a tool we could always pass it within this type of format as well.
So this is how you can connect anonymous function to an actual named function.
So click on one.
So now we need to.
So basically we've taken care of the first item.
So we've added a click event and just to always make sure it's always a good idea when you add a click
event just to make sure that it's actually connected and working.
So sometimes when you're writing out your script and you it's not working and then you go to debug.
You're not going to be sure what's actually gone wrong or what's happened.
So always take it step by step.
Run it through your console make sure that your first step is done.
And you can actually check this part off now and let's move on to the next one.
So the next one is we need to get the value of the item.
So we have a text item called new item and this is we need to get the actual value of it.
So let's do and let's just set up a variable.
Call it a and document get element by ID.
And this is definitely the most popular one that gets used most often because it's really the easiest
one to make our selection because we know that within our age to Mel we only have one with that ID.
So that's why most popular one gets used so that's it.
We're able to grab the value.
And again it's always a good idea to use your developer console to make sure that you're actually picking
up that value.
So let's enter in test.
We see that we're picking it up within our function.
So we're ready to go.
To move on to the third step.
So the third step is to create a brand new element so let's create that one and we're going to do it
within the same format as we did earlier so we'll create it within a variable ally.
And this one is documents and this time we're doing creates elements.
So basically it allows us to create an element and element that we're creating is a list item Elyot.
So now we've created a brand new list item and there's really not much we can do to test the site.
So the next thing that we need to do is we need to take this list item and we need to add in the text
value.
So remember how we did it last time.
So go ahead.
Pause the video if you haven't already done so.
And add that brand new tech into the list item.
Now there were a number of answers to this and well last time we also saw we could use enraged him to
add in some text or enter text so we could do that as well.
But we're going to do it within the methods that are provided within Javascript.
So let's do it list item and we're going to append child and then within the child.
This is where we're going to create a brand new text node.
So this again is document and create and we're creating a text not so text no.
And basically this is gives us the ability to create a brand new text node and the value of the text
node is going to be what we're picking up from this input field here.
So that's it.
So now we've got a text node in there so let's save that.
And let's before we go on to our last step.
Just make sure that everything is working so do test.
We see that we've got the list item.
We've got test inside of it and now the last thing that we need to do is add our ally to our list.
So go ahead.
Pause the video if you haven't already found the solution and try it out for yourself.
Add in that newly created a list item into the ordered list that we have within our H.T..
Remember this ordered list.
We gave it an I.D..
So it's really easy to identify.
So go ahead and add that item and I'll show you the solution.
Coming up so the solution to it is that we all have to do is to append child so documents get element
by id and we know that this one is really easy to identify because we already have an ID for it.
So we had given an ID of S list.
So let's grab that one S list and next we need to do the math that append child to it and the child
that we're spending.
So that goes with those rounded brackets.
And that's the ally.
So basically that's it.
We can get rid of our cons..
And lastly let's try this just to make sure it's works.
So this is our shopping list so it's out and I pull out in an orange let's add in our banana and so
on.
So everything is working properly.
And we can create a shopping list on the fly.
All via javascript.